DOC-1654: Update CONTRIBUTING and README (#2426)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: CONTRIBUTING.md

# How to contribute to TinyMCE’s documentation

We welcome people with technical writing experience to help make TinyMCE’s docs as useful to our community as possible. Although you don’t need to be an expert developer to contribute, a basic understanding of software development is helpful.

What is more important is your ability to articulate complex ideas. Our goal is to help developers understand TinyMCE’s functionality as quickly as possible.

Simply branch the [docs GitHub repository](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs) and submit a PR, or reach out to the [TinyMCE docs team](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/issues/new?assignees=&labels=question&template=question.md) if you have a specific question.

# TinyMCE documentation tech stack

The documentation is built with [Antora](https://antora.org/) and text files are written in [AsciiDoc](https://asciidoc.org/). You will find the [repo here](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs).

## Highlighting

Code language syntax and associated elements are highlighted using an open and closing backtick. For example, this `object` is actually enclosed with backticks like this: `object`.

> Highlight words relating specifically to executable parts of software languages. Keys and their values when pertaining to objects and methods (particularly the case with TinyMCE) should have backticks. We cannot cover every use case here and contributors need to use their best judgment. What is more important is your ability to articulate complex ideas.

Author: Agreed. I deleted it.

This page outlines how you can provide feedback and contribute to TinyMCE documentation.

# Contributor Code of Conduct

For our Contributor Code of Conduct, visit our [Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct on GitHub](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/blob/develop/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md#contributor-covenant-code-of-conduct).

# How to contribute to TinyMCE’s documentation

We welcome people with technical writing experience to help make TinyMCE’s docs as useful to our community as possible. Although you don’t need to be an expert developer to contribute, a basic understanding of software development is helpful.

What is more important is your ability to articulate complex ideas. Our goal is to help developers understand TinyMCE’s functionality as quickly as possible.

Simply branch the [docs GitHub repository](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs) and submit a PR, or reach out to the [TinyMCE docs team](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/issues/new?assignees=&labels=question&template=question.md) if you have a specific question.

# TinyMCE documentation tech stack

> The documentation is built with [Antora](https://antora.org/) and text files are written in [ascii doc](https://asciidoc.org/). You will find the [repo here](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The documentation is built with [Antora](https://antora.org/) and text files are written in [AsciiDoc](https://asciidoc.org/). You will find the [repo here](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs).
```

## Highlighting

Code language syntax and associated elements are highlighted using an open and closing backtick. For example, this `object` is actually enclosed with backticks like this: `object`.

Highlight words relating specifically to executable parts of software languages. Keys and their values when pertaining to objects and methods (particularly the case with TinyMCE) should have backticks. We cannot cover every use case here and contributors need to use their best judgment. What is more important is your ability to articulate complex ideas.

## Code snippets

> Code snippets should always be complete, executable code blocks starting with the `tinymce` object. We write code snippets by enclosing the example code within three opening and closing backticks. The first set of backticks is immediately followed by the code’s language, which helps correct syntax highlighting: typically, html, css, js (and sometimes php).

Reviewer: This section is incorrect... this isn't how code snippets are done in AsciiDoc. It uses something like this instead:
```
[source, js]
----
    tinymce.init({
      selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
      plugins: 'codesample',
      toolbar: 'codesample',
    });
----
```

- [ ] Fix this section

Include any key values pairs and method options that are required to enable a user to test the snippet in a local HTML file. You do not need to include the `html` surrounding the `tinymce` object that would be required to make the snippet work.

For example, this is good:
```js
    tinymce.init({
      selector: 'textarea', // change this value according to your HTML
      plugins: 'codesample',
      toolbar: 'codesample',
    });
```

This is not:
```js
    tinymce.init({
      ...
      plugins: 'codesample',
      toolbar: 'codesample'
      ...
    });
```

## URLs and links

Resources to be linked take the form of a URL following by the linked text between two brackets. Linking an external resource looks like this:

```
    hello, http://www.example.com[text to link] to the URL example.com.
```

## Live demos

> New live demos can be added to [modules/ROOT/examples/live-demos directory](modules/ROOT/examples/live-demos). It then can be referenced in your doc with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New live demos can be added to the [modules/ROOT/examples/live-demos directory](modules/ROOT/examples/live-demos). It then can be referenced in your doc with the following code:
```

```
    liveDemo::{sub-directory-name}[]
```

## Adding metadata to a page

> Every page should have a meta section starting at line 1 containing information that is both informative and system critical. If you are creating a page or editing one that currently has inadequate meta information, please read the comments next to the default meta fields below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every page should have a meta section immediately after the heading containing information that is both informative and system critical. If you are creating a page or editing one that currently has inadequate meta information, please read the comments next to the default meta fields below.
```

```
    :navtitle:          // Descriptive title for the navigation bar, if omitted nav defaults to title field.

>     :description_short: // Short description for the grid layouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This isn't a valid property in AsciiDoc and was a custom one used by the old system.

    :description:       // Detailed description at page level for the header section under the title.

>     :keywords:          // Space-separated list of keywords in the content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :keywords:          // Comma-separated list of keywords in the content.
```

- Words to avoid, such as jargon, metaphores, and Latin terms; see: [Content Design London: Readability Guidelines - Words to avoid](https://readabilityguidelines.co.uk/clear-language/words-to-avoid/).

For a short list of some commonly used Latin terms, see: [Australian Government Style Manual - Latin shortened forms](https://www.stylemanual.gov.au/format-writing-and-structure/clear-language-and-writing-style/plain-english-and-word-choice/latin-shortened-forms).

## Use US English (en\_US) spelling

Use United States English. For example:

- "behavior" rather than "behaviour".

- "canceled" rather than "cancelled".

## Use proper names for programs and languages

When referring to the name of a development language, use the proper name or the industry convention.

For example:

- "CSS" not "css"

- "jQuery" not "Jquery"

- "React" not "React-js"

When using these terms in code elements (\`) or pre blocks (\`\`\`), use standard syntax. Such as:

- `tinymce`

- `<html>`

- `var React = require('react');`

When referring to a program, use the proper name.

For example:

> - "Microsoft Internet Explorer" not "IE"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- “Google Chrome” not “Chrome”
```

Given Internet Explorer has been deprecated for use in TinyMCE 6 (and is, generally and finally, no longer being widely used), a more current example programme’s proper name seems apropos.

## Adding admonitions or notes

Avoid adding admonitions (also known as: *notices*, *notes*, *warnings*, or *callouts*) where possible. Over-use of admonitions may lead to what is sometimes referred to as "Admonition Fatigue". For an article on reason for limiting the use of admonitions, see: [Harvard Business Review: Consumer Warning Labels Aren’t Working](https://hbr.org/2016/11/consumer-warning-labels-arent-working).

Admontions typically start with: *Tip*, *Note*, *Important*, *Caution*, or *Warning*.

For example:

This is a note; used for additional, indirectly related information.

This is a note that is important for users to read.

Tiny documentation uses four levels of admonition:

1.  NOTE: Use for additional, indirectly related information. Do not use where it is possible to reword or rewrite the content to incorporate the information.

2.  IMPORTANT: Use when ignoring the notice *may* or *will* lead to unexpected behavior.

3.  CAUTION: Use when ignoring the notice *may* lead to one or more of the following:

    - A significant increase in the risk of a security breach.

    - Create a security vulnerability.

>     - Cause information loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Information loss.
```

For each item in the list that follows _one or more of the following_ to, in fact, **be** _one or more of the following_, said items must be things: nouns or noun phrases. _Cause information loss_ is an action; a verb phrase.

    - System failure.

    - Worse outcomes than those listed here.

4.  WARNING: Use when ignoring the notice *will* lead to one or more of the following:

    - A significant increase in the risk of a security breach.

>     - Create a security vulnerability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - A security vulnerability.
```

For each item in the list that follows _one or more of the following_ to, in fact, **be** _one or more of the following_, said items must be things: nouns or noun phrases. _Create a security vulnerability_ is an action; a verb phrase.

>     - Cause information loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Information loss.
```

For each item in the list that follows one or more of the following to, in fact, be one or more of the following, said items must be things: nouns or noun phrases. Cause information loss is an action; a verb phrase.

    - System failure.

    - Worse outcomes than those listed here.

## Useful general writing advice

The following pages provide advice on writing, including technical
writing.

- For a brief overview of how users read (or don’t read) content, see: [Content Design London: Readability Guidelines - How people read](https://readabilityguidelines.co.uk/content-design/how-people-read/).

- For points on how to structure content, see: [Content Design London: Readability Guidelines - Page design](https://readabilityguidelines.co.uk/content-design/page-design/).

- For general information on writing, covering a variety of subjects, see: [plainlanguage.gov: Mary Dash’s Writing Tips](https://plainlanguage.gov/resources/articles/dash-writing-tips/).

# Glossary

> Accessible Rich Internet Applications (ARIA) Acronym for *Accessible Rich Internet Applications* Spell out and describe on first mention within a section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Accessible Rich Internet Applications (ARIA): Acronym for *Accessible Rich Internet Applications*. Spell out and describe on first mention within a section.
```

Missing punctuation.

See: [MDN Web Docs - ARIA](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA).

add-on
: Do not use *add-on*. Use *"`plugin`"* instead.

anchor
: Use when describing the Anchor plugin or the technical insertion of an
anchor tag into HTML. When talking with a business audience, use
*bookmark* or add *bookmark* as a clarifier.

Application Programming Interface (API)  

> : Use *API* in most circumstances. Spell it out on first mention only if kthe document is for a non-technical audience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: Use *API* in most circumstances. Spell it out on first mention only if the document is for a non-technical audience.
```

Typo correction.

technology.

self-hosted premium plugins  
: Preferred. Do not use *premium plugin SDKs*.

should or must  
: Avoid using *must* or *should* Only use where it is unavoidable.

submenu  
: Use *submenu* Do not use *sub-menu* or *sub menu*.

Software as a Service (SaaS)  
: Spell out on the first mention in a section for general audience. For a technical audience, it is always OK to use SaaS.

Do not capitalize as SAAS.

Do not hyphenate as a modifier, but include the abbreviated form in parentheses.

spell checking, spell checker, spell check  
: Do not use the compound words *spellcheck* or *spellchecker*

Do not hyphenate.

textarea, text box, textbox  
: Use *textarea* to refer to a multi-line text box in a form.

Tiny  
: Use to refer to the company or our entire solution/platform.

Do not use *Tiny* to refer to the core editor, which is *TinyMCE*.

Tiny 4.x, Tiny 5.0  
: *Tiny* is not a product. Do not give it a version. Use the product name, such as TinyMCE 5.0 or TinyMCE 4.9.

Tiny Cloud  
: Correct way to refer to the Tiny Cloud service. Spell it out on all occasions.

For example: *Tiny Cloud* includes a fast content delivery network.

Tiny Technologies Inc.  

> : *Tiny Technologies Inc.* is full and correct business name for *Tiny*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: *Tiny Technologies Inc.* is the full and correct business name for *Tiny*
```

Missing definite article.

Do not use *Ephox Corporation*.

TinyMCE  
: This is the JavaScript library for rich text editing.

> Capitalize the *MCE* Do not use *Tinymce* *tinymce* is allowed in code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Capitalize the *MCE* Do not use *Tinymce*. *tinymce* is allowed in code
```

Missing full-stop.

and codeblocks where required.

> TinyMCE 4  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TinyMCE 5  
```

Update the glossary’s version number examples to reflect the release of *TinyMCE 6*.

> : Correct way to refer to the 4.x releases of TinyMCE unless a specific version number (major.minor.patch) is *required*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: Correct way to refer to the 5.x releases of TinyMCE unless a specific version number (major.minor.patch) is *required*.
```

Update the glossary’s version number examples to reflect the release of *TinyMCE 6*.

> TinyMCE 4.x  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TinyMCE 5.x  
```

Update the glossary’s version number examples to reflect the release of *TinyMCE 6*.

> : Do not use. Use *TinyMCE 4* or *version 4* If necessary to specify the availability of a new feature or change in behavior, specify the minor version number such as TinyMCE 4.7.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: Do not use. Use *TinyMCE 5* or *version 5* If necessary to specify the availability of a new feature or change in behavior, specify the minor version number such as TinyMCE 5.7.
```

Update the glossary’s version number examples to reflect the release of *TinyMCE 6*.

> TinyMCE 5  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TinyMCE 6  
```

Update the glossary’s version number examples to reflect the release of *TinyMCE 6*.

> : Correct way to refer to the 5.x releases of TinyMCE unless a specific version number (major.minor.patch) is *required*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: Correct way to refer to the 6.x releases of TinyMCE unless a specific version number (major.minor.patch) is *required*.
```

Update the glossary’s version number examples to reflect the release of *TinyMCE 6*.

user  
: Typically refers to the end user of TinyMCE (such as the content author).

Use *end user* when it is necessary to delineate between the developer as a user and the end user of TinyMCE.

Use *Integrator* or *developer* where appropriate.

user experience (UX), experience  
: Be careful to use *UX* and *UI* correctly as they are different. Spell out *user experience* to give it context.

Avoid using *experience*

Do not use *UI experience*

For example:

To give feedback on the TinyMCE user experience on mobile devices, complete this survey.

user interface (UI)  
: Acceptable to use *UI* in most communication. For content destined for non-technical users, spell out user interface (UI) the first time it used in the document.

Do not use *Ui* or *ui*

Do not use *UI experience* It is either *user experience (UX)* OR *user interface (UI)*, but never both.

web  
: Do not use *web* Use *Internet* for clarity. Can be used for terms such as *web server*.

Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)  
: Acronym for *Web Content Accessibility Guidelines* Spell out and describe on first mention within a section.

WYSIWYG  

> : Avoid using *WYSIWYG* Use *rich text editor*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: Avoid using *WYSIWYG*. Use *rich text editor*.
```

Missing puncutation.

    - A significant increase in the risk of a security breach.

    - A security vulnerability.

    - Information loss.

    - System failure.

    - Worse outcomes than those listed here.

4.  WARNING: Use when ignoring the notice *will* lead to one or more of the following:

    - A significant increase in the risk of a security breach.

    - A security vulnerability.

    - Information loss.

    - System failure.

    - Worse outcomes than those listed here.

## Useful general writing advice

The following pages provide advice on writing, including technical
writing.

- For a brief overview of how users read (or don’t read) content, see: [Content Design London: Readability Guidelines - How people read](https://readabilityguidelines.co.uk/content-design/how-people-read/).

- For points on how to structure content, see: [Content Design London: Readability Guidelines - Page design](https://readabilityguidelines.co.uk/content-design/page-design/).

- For general information on writing, covering a variety of subjects, see: [plainlanguage.gov: Mary Dash’s Writing Tips](https://plainlanguage.gov/resources/articles/dash-writing-tips/).

# Glossary

> Accessible Rich Internet Applications (ARIA): Acronym for *Accessible Rich Internet Applications*. Spell out and describe on first mention within a section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accessible Rich Internet Applications (ARIA)
: Acronym for *Accessible Rich Internet Applications*. Spell out and describe on first mention within a section.
```
This section is meant to be a description list, so this should be on a new line.

Simply branch the [docs GitHub repository](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs) and submit a PR, or reach out to the [TinyMCE docs team](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/issues/new?assignees=&labels=question&template=question.md) if you have a specific question.

# TinyMCE documentation tech stack

The documentation is built with [Antora](https://antora.org/) and text files are written in [AsciiDoc](https://asciidoc.org/). You will find the [repo here](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs).

## Highlighting

Code language syntax and associated elements are highlighted using an open and closing backtick. For example, this `object` is actually enclosed with backticks like this: `object`.

Highlight words relating specifically to executable parts of software languages. Keys and their values when pertaining to objects and methods (particularly the case with TinyMCE) should have backticks. We cannot cover every use case here and contributors need to use their best judgment. What is more important is your ability to articulate complex ideas.

## Code snippets

> Code snippets should always be complete, executable code blocks starting with the `tinymce` object. We write code snippets using [source blocks](https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/verbatim/source-blocks/) which starts by specifying the `source` style and the code snippet language in square brackets to enable syntax highlighting. The language is typically html, css, js, or ts.

Author: @metricjs Can you proofread this paragraph?

> Code snippets should always be complete, executable code blocks starting with the `tinymce` object. We write code snippets using [source blocks](https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/verbatim/source-blocks/) which starts by specifying the `source` style and the code snippet language in square brackets to enable syntax highlighting. The language is typically html, css, js, or ts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code snippets should be complete, executable code blocks starting with the `tinymce` object. We write code snippets using [source blocks](https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/verbatim/source-blocks/). These start by specifying the `source` style and the code snippet language in square brackets to enable syntax highlighting. The language is typically html, css, js, or ts.
```

A @brian-forte proof reading copy-edit in lieu of @metricjs. ‘Always’ removed as unnecessary in the first sentence. And the second sentence contained a run-on clause that is now a separate sentence.
